{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Readme - Raw data - DG_NewPop\
Emmanuelle C. Leroy - UNSW - October 2019\
\
Diego Garcia blue whale detections \
\
Diego Garcia blue whale were detected in the CTBTO acoustic recordings from the Diego Garcia North (DGN) and South (DGS) sites. Acoustic recordings are located in the acoustic drive  ([/Volumes/acoustics/CTBTOData/Diego Garcia] and [/Volumes/acoustics/CTBTOData/Diego Garcia North]).\
Data from the Hydrophones H08N1 and H08S1 were used. \
\
The SRD detector designed by Socheleau (see Socheleau et al. (2018)) was used to detect the Diego Garcia blue whale call using a threshold of -8.6 dB (SNIR value). The dictionary used by the detection algorithm was built for each year of data. The dictionaries used for each site and year can be find in the folder \'91detector\'92. \
\
\
Folders DGN and DGS: detection results\
\
These Matlab files comprise the detections of Diego Garcia blue whale calls. These detections have been double checked and the false detections were removed prior the creation of these files. A summary of the removed number of false detections can be found in the excel spreadsheet\
number_false_detections_DGN_DGS_RAMA.xlsx\
Each Matlab file is composed of 3 matrices :\
- detections: this matrix contains all the detected events. Each line is a detection, and the columns contains the infos of the detection as follow: \
\
1- year\
2- Julian day (1 to 365 (or 366))\
3- month (1 to 12)\
4- Week (1 to 52)\
5 - detection time (in Matlab time)\
6 - SNR of the call\
7- SINR (Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio = sort of index of similarity between event detected and call of interest)\
8- class of SNR. Classes ranges from -11 (for a SNR = -inf) to 10. class = floor(SNR/5)\
\
The two other matrices (snr_mois and snr_sem) contain the number of detections per SNR class per month (snr_mois) and per week (snr_sem).\
Col 1- year\
Col 2 - month or week\
Col 3 to 24 - SNR class\
	col 3= class -11 (SNR= -inf)\
	col 4= class -10 (SNR= -50dB)\
	\'85\
	col 24=class 10 (SNR= +50dB)\
}